2	google	Mountain View  CA	 Jun 21  2013	Former Employee - Program Manager	Moving at the speed of light  burn out is inevitable	"1) Food  food  food. 15+ cafes on main campus (MTV) alone. Mini-kitchens  snacks  drinks  free breakfast/lunch/dinner  all day  errr'day.  2) Benefits/perks. Free 24:7 gym access (on MTV campus). Free (self service) laundry (washer/dryer) available. Bowling alley. Volley ball pit. Custom-built and exclusive employee use only outdoor sport park (MTV). Free health/fitness assessments. Dog-friendly. Etc. etc. etc.  3) Compensation. In ~2010 or 2011  Google updated its compensation packages so that they were more competitive.  4) For the size of the organization (30K+)  it has remained relatively innovative  nimble  and fast-paced and open with communication but  that is definitely changing (for the worse).  5) With so many departments  focus areas  and products  *in theory*  you should have plenty of opportunity to grow your career (horizontally or vertically). In practice  not true.  6) You get to work with some of the brightest  most innovative and hard-working/diligent minds in the industry. There's a ""con"" to that  too (see below)."	"1) Work/life balance. What balance? All those perks and benefits are an illusion. They keep you at work and they help you to be more productive. I've never met anybody at Google who actually time off on weekends or on vacations. You may not hear management say  ""You have to work on weekends/vacations"" but  they set the culture by doing so - and it inevitably trickles down. I don't know if Google inadvertently hires the work-a-holics or if they create work-a-holics in us. Regardless  I have seen way too many of the following: marriages fall apart  colleagues choosing work and projects over family  colleagues getting physically sick and ill because of stress  colleagues crying while at work because of the stress  colleagues shooting out emails at midnight  1am  2am  3am. It is absolutely ridiculous and something needs to change.  2) Poor management. I think the issue is that  a majority of people love Google because they get to work on interesting technical problems - and these are the people that see little value in learning how to develop emotional intelligence. Perhaps they enjoy technical problems because people are too ""difficult."" People are promoted into management positions - not because they actually know how to lead/manage  but because they happen to be smart or because there is no other path to grow into. So there is a layer of intelligent individuals who are horrible managers and leaders. Yet  there is no value system to actually do anything about that because ""emotional intelligence"" or ""adaptive leadership"" are not taken seriously.  3) Jerks. Sure  there are a lot of brilliant people - but  sadly  there are also a lot of jerks (and  many times  they are one and the same). Years ago  that wasn't the case. I don't know if the pool of candidates is getting smaller  or maybe all the folks with great personalities cashed out and left  or maybe people are getting burned out and it's wearing on their personality and patience. I've heard stories of managers straight-up cussing out their employees and intimidating/scaring their employees into compliance.  4) It's a giant company now and  inevitably  it has become slower moving and is now layered with process and bureaucracy. So many political battles  empire building  territory grabbing. Google says  ""Don't be evil."" But  that practice doesn't seem to be put into place when it comes to internal practices. :("	1) Don't dismiss emotional intelligence and adaptive leadership. They're not just catch phases. You need great managers and leaders in order to build great companies and develop great employees. The people who may be brilliant at solving technical issues may not be (and are most often  not) the best candidates for management.  2) Do something about that work-ife balance. Don't just have a bunch of pow-wows and tech talks and discussions about it. Leadership should actually model it. Consider re-evaluating how work is done  what processes are in place that are inefficient and ineffective and need to be updated or removed?  3) Don't forget that there is already a pool of incredibly talented people within the company. If career development is really a goal at Google  then do it. Don't just hire from the outside. Take the time to help your employees develop their careers - then maybe you won't lose some of the great ones  and maybe you'll have prevent some of that burn out and disillusionment.	4	2	3	3	5	3	2094	https://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/Google-Reviews-E9079_P1.htm
7822	amazon	Seattle  WA	 Jan 10  2016	Current Employee - Anonymous Employee	You Get What You Put In	Really smart people  a lot of opportunity for growth  always encouraged to be innovative  think big  and create something new. Competitive salary and benefits with other major tech companies. 100% self motivating work environment. No dress code and 4 legged friends are welcome.	You have to be self motivated. NO ONE will hold your hand and tell you that you're doing a great job. If you need constant affirmations from management  this company isn't for you.	More on-boarding training before new employees are thrown in the fire. The first couple of weeks can be very confusing on where to find the information you need that pertains to your job.	5	4	5	5	5	5	1759	https://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/Amazon-Reviews-E6036_P1.htm
7823	amazon	Seattle  WA	 Feb 20  2016	Current Employee - Senior Engineering Manager	Exciting Work  Abusive Culture	"Jeff Bezos and his ""S-Team"" are brilliant and continue to make great decisions for long-term growth.  You work with smart people  you work on exciting projects  you are pushed to your limits...which can be rewarding when you accomplish great things. The diversity of the potential work and innovation can be very alluring. I've often called Amazon my ""Sexy Mistress...she's emotionally abusive  but she's so sexy that I go back for more punishment."""	"The management process is abusive  and I'm currently a manager. I've seen too much ""behind the wall"" and hate how our individual performers can be treated. You are forced to ride people and stack rank employees...I've been forced to give good employees bad overall ratings because of politics and stack ranking."	"Don't pretend that the recent NY Times article was all about ""isolated incidents"". The culture IS abusive and it WILL backfire once stock value starts to drop. I'm an 8 year veteran and I no longer recommend former peers to interview with Amazon."	3	3	3	3	4	4	1404	https://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/Amazon-Reviews-E6036_P1.htm
7824	amazon	Seattle  WA	 Dec 17  2013	Current Employee - Software Development Manager	Can be amazing for some people  horrible for others	Amazon is doing lot's of cool stuff...but lots of boring stuff too. There are really well run teams...and very badly run teams. The experience for software managers and engineers is all over the board  from really run low operational load teams to teams where people burn out after a year.   - Amazon is built  quite deliberately  to be Darwinian. You can generally expect that anyone who's been here for more than 2 years is competent and motivated or they wouldn't have survived. You can count on them as long as your priorities are aligned. There aren't many slackers here  and they don't survive long.   - We work on so much stuff that there's always an opportunity to find amazing cool stuff to work on (note that it's an 'opportunity'  one that you have to pursue)   - A chance to make a huge difference   - A place where you can learn a lot about all kinds of things  both technical and about yourself   - Amazon encourages high mobility - even your manager can't prevent you from moving to another team within 6 weeks (normally  more than a few months under unusual conditions).   - Your friends and family have actually heard of the place you work and have at least a vague notion of what Amazon does without you having to explain	- You're responsible for your own career progression and finding the places and teams that are doing the stuff you want to do. No one is going to take you by the hand and help you with that. - Amazon is built  quite deliberately  to be Darwinian. The strong survive and the weak perish (metaphorically speaking) and the 'bar' is constantly increasing. The level of performance that would have been acceptable five years ago will get you canned today. It's a kind of crucible that'll help you develop a harder edge  if you can survive  that can serve you well in your career and in life  but it's often not a pleasant experience.  I wouldn't recommend it as a place to work for just anyone.	Stack ranking is a horrible practice since it's rife with favoritism. It's also not Amazonian in that it's not data based (arbitrarily designating a certain percentage of employees that must be put on performance management isn't a data driven criterion) and it's not frugal (effectively forcing an individual out of the company in one division who would make the grade in another is either retaining someone who doesn't meet the bar or a waste of talent). The goal is to force managers to actually make the hard decisions about how their team members compare with each other (not everyone can be exceptional)  but it has more defects than virtues. Replace it with a common comparison of each person against the bar for their position  based on data. The percentages that are assigned to each performance category will turn out how they turn out  but there will be an evaluation mechanism that's fair and frugal.	4	3	3	5	5	4	1275	https://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/Amazon-Reviews-E6036_P1.htm
49601	microsoft	Redmond  WA	 Jan 28  2013	Current Employee - Anonymous Employee	Thoughts after 10 years....	1. If you love tech  this is a great place. No doubt you'll talk tech (mostly the MSFT stack) from enterprise to consumer - from PCs to phones to Xboxes - from datacenter to desktop.  2. What were GREAT benefits are now VERY GOOD (took a small step down) but still probably better than you'll find at 99% of large corporations. If you've got family - the value of the benefits is even higher. 401k match is nice.  3. Even with it's struggles MSFT is still a cash printing machine. This means if you can keep your nose clean and do reasonable work  you can have a stable job  pay your bills  feed your family  and not worry (too much) about layoffs. The stock you own likely won't tank  but probably won't go up much either. You'll get a bonus each year and some stock. It's a decent life if you aren't looking to light the world on fire.	"Brand on Your Resume: After many years of losing market share and struggling to be at the front end of innovation and the fact that there's 90 000 employees  don't think MSFT is necessarily going to be attractive on your resume to more agile and smaller companies.  Managing Your Career: Make you say this out loud so it registers - 90 000 employees work there. Double that for vendors. It is VERY hard to ""stand out"" and move up in the company. Don't expect your manager to be much of an advocate or enabler to help you meet your career goals - they are basically trying to survive the stack rank every year too. Not familiar with the stack rank? Check out the 2012 Vanity Fair article called ""Microsoft's Lost Decade""."	"I'll type it here - but I don't they are listening... 1. Help proven talent move laterally in the company for new opportunities. 2. Kill/evolve the stack rank. Here's basically how it's viewed:. 30% of the company gets 1s and 2s - and they are happy. 50% get 3s and that basically feels like getting a ""C"" in school. This sucks for talented people when a multitude of UNCONTROLLABLE conditions keep you from getting into 1 or 2 range. The 20% getting anything below a 3 are walking dead. In summary  70% of the company walk away from the review cycle feeling like crap. This is no good.  After 10 years  I'm leaving - it's just a matter of time until I find the right opportunity. I need to find a company spends 90% of it's time building technology experiences  as opposed to 90% of its time building PowerPoints. And I expect to refuse the exit interview - because if you really cared what I thought  you wouldn't ask me after I decided to leave."	4	4	2	2	4	none	1439	https://www.glassdoor.com/Reviews/Microsoft-Reviews-E1651_P1.htm
